---
title: Don't Get Phished&#58 Forget Your Passwords Today
date: 2017-01-14T22:27:31+00:00
author: jsha
layout: post
---

One of the best reasons to use a password manager is to defend yourself
against phishing. Conversely, one of the most important features a password
manager can provide is defense against phishing through password autofill.

Phishing is what happens when someone tricks you into typing the right
password into the wrong website. Unfortunately, it is all too easy to
fall victim to phishing, because it takes advantage of a mismatch between
what humans are good at and what computers are good at.

Computers are very good at comparing two things to see if they are exactly
equal. If you ask a computer whether `www.paypal.com` and `ww.wpaypal.com`
are the same site, it can easily determine that they are
different, unrelated sites. Most humans can tell the difference most of
the time, but if they are tired, or stressed, or in a rush,
or have any number of other common obstacles to computer use, there's a
good chance they won't notice the difference, will type their password
into the wrong site, and will have their account taken over by bad guys.

As an individual, your entire defense against phishing it to make
that distinction with the same inhuman perfection your computer does. Before you
type your password into a web site, you need to check the URL bar of your
browser to make sure the site name is exactly correct, and do it with 100%
accuracy.

Fortunately, there's a better way: Use a password manager with autofill, and
generate unique, complex passwords for every site.

When a password manager fills in a password for you on a site, it will only fill
in passwords that match that site's domain name. If you land on a lookalike
domain name as part of a phishing attack, it will not fill in any passwords,
because that lookalike domain name isn't an exact match for any of your saved
passwords.

Faced with a password manager that is refusing to fill in a password, you may,
in a weaker moment, go ahead and type in your
password anyhow. This is why it's also important to use a unique, complex
password for every site, ideally one randomly generated by your password
manager. You want to make it impossible to remember your passwords, so you
have to rely on your computer to autofill them.

## Saving passwords in the browser

Some outdated security advice recommends against using your browser's built-in
saved passwords list. This advice is typically intended to defend against
someone with in-person access to an unlocked computer. These days, phishing is
a much more common attack than in-person access, and screen lock passwords are
much more ubiquitous, so the tradeoff is different.

Since a browser's saved password list is effectively a built-in password
manager, it's a good defense against phishing. The main thing browsers lack in the
password management department is an easy way to generate random passwords,
though [Chrome is working on
it](https://www.chromium.org/developers/design-documents/password-generation).
Browsers also tend to lack some of the fancier features of dedicated password managers,
like auditing your passwords for quality, or automatically changing them. But
they have the important advantage of already being installed.

Of course, if you *do* leave your computer unlocked, or use a public computer,
or share a computer with someone who might steal your passwords, this advice
changes: you shouldn't use any sort of password manager. But keep in mind that
you still run a risk of someone
else installing malware to record your passwords when you type them in.

## Vulnerabilities in password manager extensions

In July and August of 2016, Tavis Ormandy investigated password managers, and
quickly [found](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/project-zero/issues/detail?id=884)
[several](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/project-zero/issues/detail?id=888)
[critical](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/project-zero/issues/detail?id=890)
[vulnerabilities](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/project-zero/issues/detail?id=917),
which were then fixed.  These vulnerabilities demonstrated the unfortunate truth
that software marketed for security purposes often introduces its own security
flaws.

This doesn't mean you should avoid password managers altogether. For
most users, the benefit from using a password manager with autofill features is
so large that it outweighs the risks from installing additional software that
may be vulnerable. But it all depends on your estimation of how vulnerable the
common password manager extensions are. The presence of past vulnerabilities
is not always a good predictor of software quality, so it's hard to
say. Using a browser's built-in password manager is probably a fairly safe bet,
since browser security teams are generally larger and better-funded than
password manager companies.

## Two-factor authentication

2FA is also commonly touted as a strong defense against phishing. It can be, but
as [Bruce Schneier pointed out in
2005](https://www.chromium.org/developers/design-documents/password-generation),
any 2FA that depends on the user typing in a secondary code (as most 2FA
implementations today do) can be defeated by a phishing site that simply asks
for the code and passes it along to the real site. So using a password manager
with autofill and random passwords is actually a stronger phishing
defense than most common two-factor authentication.

The recent [Universal 2nd
Factor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_2nd_Factor) (U2F) standard
solves this problem by requiring a small hardware device (a "security key")
that you insert instead of typing in a secondary code. Your browser talks to the
security key, and includes the identity of the site you're trying to log into,
so if you are trying to log into a phishing site, the security key will not send
any data that could be used to log into your real account. This technique offers
much stronger security, but is currently implemented only by a small number of
browsers and sites, and requires purchase of an extra device.
